Okay,
guys on Welcome back last week.
Isil,
Freddie Mercury in the garden.
So how did you do on the test?
Don't worry if you didn't get them all right,
the first time around,
there's no pressure here on we've only just started.
Of course,
if you did a sit,
well done.
You Now,
in the last lecture we learned about association on by applying our imagination a little,
we could make a connection between two things that ordinarily just wouldn't go together.
Though it may not be obvious at the moment what you actually achieve.
There was so much more than that.
You just created three mini movies.
Movies Tell a story in just a minute.
I'm going to tell you a story.
But first,
I want to give you some made up statistics.
The planets I once read that one in 10 people think they know how many planets there are in
our solar system.
One in 100.
No.
They know how many planets there are.
One in 1000.
Kaname them on.
Only one in 10,000 can name them in order.
Now,
those numbers are far too need to be inaccurate statistic,
but scale wise they're probably not that far off.
So which are you?
Do you think you know how many planets there are?
Do you know You know how many planets there are?
Can you name them all?
Can you name them all in order?
Well,
if you know one in 10,000 already,
you are about to bay.
So I said I was gonna tell you a story.
Are you sitting comfortably?
Just kill it.
So for the next minute also,
I want you to get comfortable,
take a few deep breaths and let them out.
Slowly.
Relax.
Close your eyes and live the events of this story with me as it unfolds.
See what I see here When I hear and feel what I feel.
Okay,
ready?
Then I'll begin.
Last week I was looking out of a window into a nearby garden,
just minding my own business when I thought I saw someone famous.
This could be exciting.
I could tell my friends I look closer and I could clearly see the moustache and the teeth.
Imagine my shock when I realized it Waas.
In fact,
none other than the amazing Freddie Mercury lead singer of the legendary rock band queen.
He was much smaller than I imagined.
Tiny in fact,
maybe only 18 inches,
45 centimeters in height.
It looked like he was trying to get that silver liquid metal back into a thermometer,
but it kept slipping through his fingers.
He was going everywhere,
even had some in his moustache.
Campell Freddie,
I shout it not stuffs poisonous.
And as he started to look up towards May,
he was distracted by a loud banging noise coming from a wooden gate at the far end of the
garden.
So we brushed himself down,
and he made his way to the gate and opened it standing.
There was the most beautiful woman I have ever seen,
a true goddess of love,
Venus,
if there ever was one she had with her an ancient Greek statue of an equally beautiful
woman.
But the arms were missing.
That looks familiar,
I thought.
But what an old scene.
Together.
They bought the statue into the center of the garden and tried to stand it up,
but it kept tipping over one way.
Then the other,
as the plant it stood on,
was broken.
They both scratched their heads for a while,
had a bit of a discussion on then they clearly had an idea.
They lay the statue down carefully,
got on their hands and knees and started scraping away at the earth with their bare hands.
They were clearly going to make a hole to stand is up in now faster and faster.
They dug earth was flying everywhere all over their faces,
their clothes,
the statue.
Some even went over the fence into the neighbouring garden.
I bet that was making a mess.
The neighbor would not be happy.
Then they suddenly stopped.
It looked like they had found something unexpected.
I couldn't see what itwas from where I waas but it looked like candy Little bars in black
rappers with red writing What's strange?
Who bury candy had to be sure So I opened the window and shared it.
Hey,
what have you found down there?
It looks like candy,
They shouted back in unison.
It is!
We found a stash of Mars past.
There are hundreds off the muju.
They were making such a racket.
So much so that the man from the neighboring garden Yes,
that garden burst through the fence.
He was a giant of a man at least 500 feet tall,
stretching up as far as the sky.
Now I thought he would be mad,
what with all the noise and the mess.
But it was really cheerful and friendly.
I might even go so far as to say he was jovial,
which I thought was quite surprising in the circumstances,
you could say he had a sunny disposition.
Perhaps that's why you had the initials s U N in big,
shimmering gold letters printed across the front of his T shirt.
What a basanti that waas.
OK,
open your eyes.
Now I'm sure about a minute into that story,
you realize exactly what it waas.
That story gives you the precise order of all the planets from the sun outwards.
If we wish through the story,
we can count them off.
So who was the first person that we met?
It was Freddie Mercury and Mercury is our first planet.
He was even playing with that silver liquid from a thermometer,
which,
of course,
is also mercury.
Just to reinforce the point,
he was also tiny,
as mercury is the smallest planet.
Next he meant that beautiful woman who was banging on the gate.
That goddess Venus on Venus is our second planet.
Now she was carrying the Venus de Milos,
just to be sure from there.
Can you recall what happened next?
Well,
they got on their hands and knees and started digging a hole,
and Earth was going everywhere.
So our third planet is earth on.
What was it they found when they started digging?
That's right.
A huge stash of delicious Mars bars on Mars is our fourth planet.
And after that,
what happened?
Well,
they're making such a racket in their celebrations that they made that giant jovial man
from next.
All burst through the fence.
Jove,
Bean,
the other name for Jupiter,
the God of the sky on the biggest giant planets.
So Planet five is Jupiter.
Finally,
can you recall what the big,
shimmering gold initials were on his T shirt?
S u N they stand for satin,
Uranus and Neptune also giants on their 6th 7th and eighth planets.
Okay,
so take a minute.
Also,
to pause the lecture on run through that story again in your head.
Really?
Of all the detail,
the sights,
the sounds,
the emotions and when you already hit play okay?
welcome back.
So how many planets are there?
Can,
you know,
Name them in order Which planet is the biggest?
Which is the smallest Which planet comes before Neptune?
So that's a pretty well known story for memorizing the planet.
But can you see how willing to each item or plan it to the next in sequence other than
being planets and diet is there is no connection between Mercury and Venus.
But by spinning a story around them or a mini movie,
just like he did in the last lecture,
we forge the link we were unlikely to forget on.
Then we got from Venus to earth,
from Earth to Mars,
master Jupiter on finally satin,
Uranus and Neptune.
So congratulations.
You are now one of the few people who can confidently name all the planets.
Now,
in case you're shouting at the screen,
what about Pluto's?
Well,
Pluto's is now officially a dwarf planet,
according to NASA.
But if you did want to know where it sets,
it's right at the end.
So there's another perhaps simpler way of remembering the order Mum visits every Monday,
just stays until noon.
Now,
the first letter of each word gives you the first letter of each of the planets.
It's quick,
but personally,
I prefer this story as there are two planets that became with the letter M.
Okay.
Next,
we're gonna put that storytelling ability into action.
I'll see you in the next lecture.